Building on GNU/Linux
=====================

This guide explains how to compile Starviewer 0.13 from scratch on a Debian
GNU/Linux 8.2 amd64. (With 4GiB of RAM)

This guide avoids splattering files everywhere of your system, the only system
wide changes will be a few 'apt-get install libsomething-dev'. We promise it :)

Installation can be made system wide, but *optionally* we show how to compile
using a local directory in your home. On the example this directory is located
on '~/uroot'.

'~/uroot' is just a prefix, if you replace it by '/' and run it as root then it 
will become a system wide setup.

Getting started: the quick way
------------------------------

1.  Use the script 'all.sh' located at (starviewer/sdk/scripts/linux) to
    do the explained steps automatically. Remember to install Qt on the proper
    location (the script will tell you).

2.  To customize the default paths edit 'sdk/config/setup.sh'

3.  Install dependencies if necessary (see 'system dependencies') section.

4.  Once the SDK is compiled it will build Starviewer, however you may want to
    set up the QtCreator IDE. Then copy the environment variables written on
    environment.sh file (created at starviewer source directory) and follow the
    instructions of the section 'Setting up QtCreator'.

5.  Run Starviewer.

Running Starviewer
------------------

Unless you have compiled and installed the SDK system-wide, Starviewer binary
will be unable to find your compiled SDK libraries.

You must run the binary with the LD_LIBRARY_PATH environment variable set.

For the sake of convenience, on the compiled binary folder 'starviewer/bin/' 
create a file named starviewer.sh with the following contents:

    #!/bin/bash
    DIR=$(readlink -f $(dirname $BASH_SOURCE))
    LD_LIBRARY_PATH=~/uroot/usr/local/lib:~/uroot/usr/local/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu:~/uroot/usr/local/lib/Qt5.4.1/5.4/gcc_64/lib/ $DIR/starviewer "$@"

Then make this file executable

    chmod u+x starviewer.sh

Libraries
---------

### System dependencies

Can be installed with your package manager.

    apt-get install cmake build-essential
    apt-get install libgl1-mesa-dev libxt-dev
    apt-get install freeglut3 freeglut3-dev
    apt-get install libsqlite3-0 libsqlite3-dev
    apt-get install libssl1.0.0 libssl-dev
    apt-get install libwrap0 libwrap0-dev
    apt-get install libpng12-0 libpng12-dev
    apt-get install libtiff5 libtiff5-dev
    apt-get install libxml2 libxml2-dev
    apt-get install libgstreamer0.10-0 libgstreamer-plugins-base0.10-0

### SDK libraries

-   Qt 5.4.1
-   dcmtk-3.6.1_20120515
-   extra-cmake-modules-1.3.0
-   gdcm-2.4.4
-   InsightToolkit-4.7.1
-   threadweaver-5.3.0
-   VTK-6.1.0

Download sources and save them in '~/uroot/downloads'.

### Direct download links

With SHA256 sums.

    497ece6ac3d8dfad70a92990b01f98a313c2189e5a0fad6c9f8cd5c4e408558e

    http://download.qt.io/official_releases/qt/5.4/5.4.1/qt-opensource-linux-x64-5.4.1.run

    09a97e82cf43672a4b16b162651f5bc0d86b9d7b8cfff58c345e5c97d6200937

    http://support.dcmtk.org/redmine/attachments/download/8/dcmtk-3.6.1_20120515.tar.gz

    bd7df10a479606d529a8b71f466c44a2bdd11fd534c62ce0aa44fad91883fa34

    http://www.vtk.org/files/release/6.1/VTK-6.1.0.tar.gz

    3328145e79e693078be01c2ca96764e364d7ce399ccf92f9e9f45ec780dfb23d

    http://downloads.sourceforge.net/project/gdcm/gdcm%202.x/GDCM%202.4.4/gdcm-2.4.4.tar.gz

    9f7b45ec57e01ca9ad89a05411752914f810fd70b7038fc48abd59e3ec13c6ee

    http://vorboss.dl.sourceforge.net/project/itk/itk/4.7/InsightToolkit-4.7.1.tar.xz

    ea8b6a648b7b2dc313df709940813c22ed5b68d2f7bef30acbaf2a83a6e4c723

    http://download.kde.org/Attic/frameworks/5.3.0/extra-cmake-modules-1.3.0.tar.xz

    c15818ec6e6320bea79a0d44e29cb4fc19a0e0d428cccb979d6c3104ec65a838
 
    http://download.kde.org/Attic/frameworks/5.3.0/threadweaver-5.3.0.tar.xz


Building the SDK
----------------

### Libraries directory

1. Run the Qt setup and set the installation path to '~/uroot/usr/local/lib/Qt5.4.1/'.

2. Extract the downloaded library sources on (discarding Qt):
   '~/uroot/usr/local/src/'

3. Move 'extra-cmake-modules-1.3.0' folder inside 'threadweaver-5.3.0 directory'.

### Configure

Edit the 'starviewer/sdk/scripts/linux/config/setup.sh'


-   DOWNLOAD_PREFIX=~/uroot/downloads

    Where buildall.sh downloads the libraries

-   SDK_INSTALL_PREFIX=~/uroot/usr/local

    Where to install the SDK libraries once compiled

-   INSTALL_QTDIR=$SDK_INSTALL_PREFIX/lib/Qt5.4.1

    Only used to tell the user where to install Qt on buildall.sh

-   QTDIR=$SDK_INSTALL_PREFIX/lib/Qt5.4.1/5.4/gcc_64

    If you use a local Qt installaton, the path where it is installed

-   STARVIEWER_SOURCE_DIR_BASE=$SCRIPTS_ROOT/../../../starviewer

    Starviewer source code location

-   SOURCE_DIR_BASE=$SDK_INSTALL_PREFIX/src

    Location of SDK sources to build

-   PATCHES_ROOT=$SCRIPTS_ROOT/../../patches

    Location of the pathes to apply on SDK libraries

-   LD_LIBRARY_PATH=$SDK_INSTALL_PREFIX/lib

    Because SDK libraries binares are not on a standard location.
    This environment variable has to be set when starting starviewer binary or
    when you compile it. (if not the linker will fail).

-   CMAKE_DISTCC

    Use it to configure a compiler prefix, the typical use case is using this
    with distcc in order to speed-up compilation time.

-   CMAKE_CPP11

    Configuration to enable c++11 support on cmake.

-   CMAKE_COMPILER

    Use it if you want to compile the SDK with a different compiler like clang.

-   MAKE_VERBOSE

    If you need a more verbose output with the compiler calls uncomment it.

-   MAKE_CONCURRENCY

    How many compile jobs can be run simultaneously, this ought to be the
    number of cpu's your computer has.

### Building the SDK

Run the following scripts: 
    1. starviewer/sdk/scripts/linux/sdk_download.sh
    2. starviewer/sdk/scripts/linux/sdk_extract.sh
    3. starviewer/sdk/scripts/linux/sdk_build.sh

### Saving the environment variables

If the above script ends up successfully, the environment variables used will
be outputted.

It is strongly recommended to copy them on a .txt file for future use.

Example:

SDK_INSTALL_PREFIX=/home/user/uroot/usr/local
LD_LIBRARY_PATH=/home/user/uroot/usr/local/lib:/home/user/uroot/usr/local/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu:/home/user/uroot/usr/local/lib/Qt5.4.1/5.4/gcc_64/lib/
QTDIR=/home/user/uroot/usr/local/lib/Qt5.4.1/5.4/gcc_64
DCMTKLIBDIR=/home/user/uroot/usr/local/lib
DCMTKINCLUDEDIR=/home/user/uroot/usr/local/include/dcmtk
VTKLIBDIR=/home/user/uroot/usr/local/lib
VTKINCLUDEDIR=/home/user/uroot/usr/local/include/vtk-6.1
GDCMLIBDIR=/home/user/uroot/usr/local/lib
GDCMINCLUDEDIR=/home/user/uroot/usr/local/include/gdcm-2.4
ITKLIBDIR=/home/user/uroot/usr/local/lib
ITKINCLUDEDIR=/home/user/uroot/usr/local/include/ITK-4.7
THREADWEAVERLIBDIR=/home/user/uroot/usr/local/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu
THREADWEAVERINCLUDEDIR=/home/user/uroot/usr/local/include/KF5

Building Starviewer
-------------------
In this contained installation we use several environment variables to
configure the paths of the libraries and include files.
During the build of the SDK the build script outputted a list of environment
variables, which are read by the Starviewer .pro files.

If you paste the variables into the console, then you can just run QMake on
Starviewer source directory and compilation will begin.

Most important variables are:

-   LD_LIBRARY_PATH

    Has to be set during linking and when running Starviewer binary, because
    library binares are not in a system path, we must tell where are they.

-   QTDIR

    Path to the custom Qt installation prefix.

-   SDK_INSTALL_PREFIX

    Used on defaultdirectories.pri and is used to tell where are the library
    binaries and include files.

The project main file is located in 'starviewer/starviewer.pro'

If you want to customize where the SDK libraries are placed or use the system
ones edit 'starviewer/starviewer/src/defaultdirectories.pri'

### Step by step build

1.  Export this environment variables. You should have copied them on your
    clipboard.

        export SDK_INSTALL_PREFIX='replace with value outputted by sdk build script'
        export LD_LIBRARY_PAYH='replace with value outputted by sdk build script'
        export QTDIR='replace with value outputted by sdk build script'

2.  Run QMake on Starviewer directory (do not use the absolute path $QTDIR if
    you want to use the Qt libraries installed on your system).

        $QTDIR/bin/qmake starviewer.pro -r -spec linux-g++

    In case you want to use a different compiler, then run:

	$QTDIR/bin/qmake starviewer.pro -r -spec linux-clang 'QMAKE_CXX=clang++' 'QMAKE_CC=clang'

    In case you want to use a different complier with distcc, then run:

	$QTDIR/bin/qmake starviewer.pro -r -spec linux-clang 'QMAKE_CXX=distcc clang++' 'QMAKE_CC=distcc clang'

3.  Compile

        make -j4

4.  Make a launch script on 'starviewer/starviewer/bin/starviewer.sh' with:

        #!/bin/bash
        DIR=$(readlink -f $(dirname $BASH_SOURCE))
        LD_LIBRARY_PATH=[PUT YOUR LD PATH HERE]  $DIR/starviewer "$@"

    Replace [PUT YOUR LD PATH HERE] with the real LD path, outputted by the
    build script, you should have it in your clipboard.

5. Run starviewer.sh

6. Enjoy :D

Setting up QtCreator
--------------------

1.  Open the starviewer project (starviewer.pro).

2.  Tools > Options > Build & run > Qt Versions

    Check that the local Qt installation is autodetected, if not add it 
    manually.

3.  Tools > Options > Build & run > Kits

    Add the kit for the installed Qt version if it's not autodetected.

4.  Switch to 'Projects' section (Ctrl+5).

5.  Add kit > Desktop Qt 5.4.1 GCC 64bit

6.  Disable 'shadow build'

7.  Build Steps > Make > Make arguments

    Add -j4 to increase the compilation speed.

8.  Build environment > Batch edit...

    Paste the variables you were told to copy after building the SDK.

    You must at least have SDK_INSTALL_PREFIX and LD_LIBRARY_PATH. Optionally
    you can skip the others, as they are not currently used.

9.  Build the project (Ctrl+B)

10. Run Starviewer (Ctrl+R)


Troubleshooting
---------------

### SDK compilation failure

-   If an SDK library fails to compile, re-run the build.sh or buildall.sh 
    script again without deleting or cleaning the SDK building directories.

-   Check that you have the system libraries installed (apt-get install...)

-   Check that you do not have paths with spaces.

### Starviewer compilation failure

-   I get errors with missing translations. Run this on your project directory.

        find  -name '*.pro' -exec lrelease {} \;
